cool hey jason
thanks for having me here it's so
exciting
yeah it's a lot of fun so we're doing an
ama right so i will have some questions
to start but those of you in the
audience just go ahead and put questions
in you know uh big small controversial
non-controversial uh just put them into
the question box and then we'll filter
them and get them to jason
uh would you say hey you mind if i start
with just a high level look back for
sure
okay
all right so i'm gonna i'm gonna quote
you three things that you said yes in
you said customer success is a single
digit higher
right so that means that you know when
should i hire the first cs person that's
either employee one or nine is that what
that means that was the idea right to
challenge folks to not think
back then right we're talking about two
generations ago in sas or generation to
not think of customer success as a cost
center to not think of it as something
you do when you have a few million in
revenue
to invest early
um in your future right in 10 10 and
decade long relationships so that was
the idea you you're only going to come
out ahead if you if that's a single
digit higher
2018 you wrote growth is good
but retention builds empires yeah yeah
and i was 20 yeah that's a good one that
was going on i don't want to refresh
that one yeah it's in many many of my
slides and then in 2020 you you also
said you are not doing enough customer
marketing yes
so this is today six years over six
years right 2015. uh maybe maybe i'll
ask you an overarching question you know
there's a lot of cs people on the
audience here yeah you know how how has
your thinking about cs and sas grown
evolved over the you know since 2015.
look at it at some level i was fortunate
right is i i was in the you know
the second generation is house companies
i started adobe sign when aaron levy
started box and all these other ones and
when uh when we
sold a little bit too early to adobe in
uh you know the sale there's there's
challenges meshing the sales cultures
and there are challenges doing other
things that we sold at a million a month
back then which seemed like a lot in
2011 12 million error million a month
doubling
and we didn't quite understand how
recurring revenue worked back then we
didn't quite understand how important
nrr was
but it was clear that even if adobe
would struggle initially to understand
our sales processes or motions
that
our our customers were growing so
quickly it was enough just to keep our
customers right that was the inside and
if you fast forward today even though
adobe sign has lost market share to doc
you sign a lot of it which is which
hurts me as a founder it's still almost
a 300 million ar business right a decade
later so
mainly by focusing on retention that 10
12 million business has grown to 300
million over a decade
and that's the power of customer success
and um i just realized and i was
literally just talking about this with a
couple great founders this week if you
don't exactly know what to do in sales
right and sometimes we don't right
if you're not sure we're planning for
next year right hopefully we're all
planning 2022 planning and if you're not
quite sure
how to do that extra thing how where to
go put the money into customer success
because it always works
right and that was the genesis of the
single digit hire it's always going to
work to keep those core customers but
little did we know in 2015 that we could
all keep our customers for decades right
all of us are keeping our customers for
for multiple decades now
um and that's kind of that thread from
hey don't forget about customer success
and when i started to talk about it
early almost a decade ago
you know a lot of customer success
professionals felt very much like second
or third term citizens right i would go
speak and and i would be like i would
talk about giving folks um uh incentives
right in variable comp and that's still
an open topic today in the industry
right but when i started talking about
it 2013 24 2015 people thought it was
crazy there's that guy that that gets us
right and i started writing give
everyone at least 20
boost if you hit and enter our goal
because do the math right if your enter
our goal goes from 110 to 130 and you
pay a few extra bucks to your cs team
it's the best investment you you could
make in your company right um
so i think that's changed and then
what's happened is we all figured out
the playbook
maybe around 2018 27 2018 right that was
this next post where tension builds
empires and
i remember at the first saster annual in
the kickoff speaker was aaron levy from
box
and box had ipo the last week it was so
kind of him he was exhausted he came in
2015 and i said you know does wall
street understand recurring revenue he's
like well a few people
today that's 2015 fast forward today
open up a prospectus of anyone ipo and
the braze the data dog everyone you know
what the nr is
page one metric right and everyone that
has 120 plus percent nrr is touting that
and even more grr is becoming more
important than there are but they're
touting that as one of their most
important metrics right and so that is
the age the age of retention building
empires but where we're still behind is
customer marketing i still give us a c
minus or a d plus
in understanding customer marketing even
though maybe at customer success we're
getting to kind of the b plus
a minus level today but customer
marketing is where customer success was
almost a decade ago
so i'm i'll play it back to you so for
you the last few years
it's just become more and more obvious
the impact of retention which means the
impact of customer success in customer
marketing it's just gotten more obvious
it's no longer sort of a debatable
conversation now it's just getting
better at doing that job yeah is that
what what's the single largest sas
company
uh salesforce right right microsoft
sales microsoft well okay i'm not going
to count the really old let's count
salesforce
new bookings come from its base do you
know
i'm gonna guess 75 70
oh 70 that's the whole story think about
that now salesforce is a 300 billion
dollar company today if it didn't have
that extra 30 maybe it'd only be a 50
billion dollar company but that's still
pretty good
so i think they're getting if they're
getting an nrr of uh over 100 on that 70
of that on that 70. yeah well over yeah
but 70 at salesforce's scale at 20
billion in revenue think about this for
a minute at 20 billion north of 20
billion 70 even at 20 billion 70 of
their new bookings are coming from the
install base now they need multiple
products which is something we didn't
understand a few years ago the role of
multiple products in expansion right in
nr expansion which is a cutting edge
topic too but if salesforce at 20
billion in error and a 300 billion
market can get 70 of revenue from its
base that means who any founder ceo that
is listening to this is under investing
in customer success almost by definition
almost 100 are under-invested in
customer success
so uh let me let me drill down on nrr we
talked about that earlier uh in earlier
session nrr i'm actually saying is is
gone from an impact metric well it it
went from an old by the way metric i'll
talk about that you know at some point
to an impact metric it makes it to the
board slide i'm actually calling it a
qualifying metric now
right where it almost doesn't matter
like if your nrr is not good
nothing else matters you know it doesn't
matter if your team is good your
technology is good your product is good
is it is it that important a metric you
know well hold on
back i hear your point um
and i think if if if you worked at
sequoia capital i would agree with you
um
you're right um and but
but
i am constantly
surprised maybe not surprised impressed
with the ability of great founders
to drive up their nrr nps and cset i am
constantly impressed so look if you go
meet with a vc and let's say
let's say your enterprise okay and your
nrr's only 100 in the enterprise not
good enough it's got to be north of 120
the enterprise right let's say you're
smb and you're below 95 not good enough
for smb right you're not going to get
you're not going to get you're not going
to get that check you're not going to
get that serious a or b check because
you're not top quartile in nr okay
you've got to be top quartile to get
funded let's be clear today it's known
if you're not top quartile you're not
going to get funded i'm not even sure
that was true three years ago it is true
today like do not pass go
but so that's depressing if you need to
raise venture capital right
but
that's just a little piece of it um
the ability if you look and if you look
at company you know hubspot is an iconic
company for larger smbs right iconic
right but it took them quite a while to
get to 100 nr okay it took them quite a
while and you'll see this again again if
you squint at companies going public or
often in the early days their their
their their metrics were not as good but
they made stickier products more
valuable products better human beings
and they grew it up so
yes it is necessary but if you are not
top quartile
have the confidence that it's possible
like don't don't get depressed
and this we've talked about this on
saturday so many times over the years
just improve it each quarter this is
again probably the top one or two most
impactful things you do your company is
improve these metrics each quarter don't
kill yourself to go from 80 to 140
percent an hour and a quarter like don't
don't don't cry in your suit just go
from 80 to 90 to 100 to 110 it's a it's
enough right that's enough right
right so i'll so i think you're right
it's it's if you want if you want to go
public you want to raise money then it's
a qualifying metric otherwise
it makes your life easier if you improve
it every single day your company becomes
better better stronger healthier uh you
always have to keep moving that up all
right i'm gonna take a question from the
audience and i have a few questions let
me just throw one thing that's slightly
adjacent in though just to relate we um
customer marketing is super important
the other one that i that i think is
almost a qual that people don't talk
enough about
is is activation rates and and time to
deployment right and that is one of your
your best cheats here to improve things
is to get your customers to deploy as
instantly as possible
and i i'm glad that when i meet with
more startups they know this number
right um how quickly do you deploy right
and what percent of your companies
of what percent of your customers go
into production within an hour a week a
month right
and and that's a big cheat that i think
is one of the the the best ways to to
make rapid improvement if you're
mediocre right and a lot of folks with
mediocre
nrgr metrics i dig in what percent of
your customers have deployed 78 well of
course 22 are gonna not all of them but
they're gonna leave if they they don't
deploy right and i'll ask them how long
does it take your average customer to go
live and and even with smbs i'll often
hear 20 days on average i'm like
it should be tomorrow if you can't
self-deploy if you're an app that can't
self-deploy the answer should be
tomorrow like why can't it be tomorrow
we don't have enough people not my
problem right build better software hire
more people
yeah retention rates you know they're
the outcome they're downstream you got
to go upstream to solve it so i agree
with you yeah if they don't deploy
they're tough to renew right right you
don't implement you don't deploy
whatever it is
okay
interesting question uh well what
mistake did you make early on
that you glad you made right in
hindsight because you learned from it
top mistake i think i know what it is
but go ahead
mmm top mistake i made early on that i'm
glad
as a sas professional
oriented customer
um
boy maybe because it's the morning i
can't the top mistake that i made that
relates to customers and customer
retention whatever in sas in general
um
the top mistake i made that i'm not that
i'm not glad i made um
and going into this sort of world we're
in today like at the tail end of covid
the top mistake i made was not visiting
enough customers in person by far
and i've written about this i wrote this
post years ago
we i lost a lot of customers after i
sold my company but i never lost a
customer i met still 10 years on when i
watch some of the logos at adobe a lot
of those are ones i visited right and
the ones i never visited
um
we lost now of course we're all doing
more zooms now and we're not going back
to that right that that's a better thing
right and you should be doing
as i think as a ceo you've got to be
doing 10 zooms a week um and as a cs
professional you should be doing three
to four day right
if you can but um a mistake i met i
remember in the early days that were
talking about me as a founder
i lost a top logo customer
right i lost the tablet and i'm like
what happened like the numbers are great
the usage is huge everything
we pulled your team we have a we have 80
percent mps he's like yeah but docusign
came
oh they're here they were here last week
like well i got i got oh i got 12 people
i can't be everywhere
and that moment when he said well they
were here
and i'm like okay i can't be everywhere
but i got to be i got to be more places
right yeah it was actually not long
after that i hired my vp of customer
success and my vp of customers says my
vp product and my vp of sales all got
help helped us all get on the road more
often
but and and but i and i think it's
important and now when i meet with ceos
and now that we're in this weird phase
right this covet phase um look if you're
not comfortable meeting in person don't
meet in person i'm not telling you to do
anything you're comfortable with but
it's time
right it is time and those bonds we
don't play golf with customers anymore
right those days i think are mostly gone
um but
boy that is that's that's the number one
mistake i made was not getting in front
of and i and i continue to make it in
many ways to this day sure sure uh all
right so um this is a another question
from the perspective of someone who sees
the whole sas organization yes
um so how do you you know i'll ask you a
different way uh how do you
convince sales to help
with nrr right and this of course is you
know about the you know good fit
deals you know not selling to the wrong
folks
i mean it's really hard to have that
conversation with the vp of sales much
less you know and as well as the ceo and
each any strategies to sort of have the
whole organization get behind nrr and of
course that means not selling bad deals
as well
well look as in the scaling phase right
there are a few things that
are more frustrating to see as
professionals than churn and burn deals
right there's nothing
a deal is closed a sales rep lied a
sales rep claimed a feature worked
and
they
and it just doesn't work or it barely
works or they exaggerated the
functionality and not only did they kind
of lie to the customer but you know
you're going to lose the customer
like it's they're so frustrating um
i'll give this strategic answer which
which maybe is a little challenges your
question a little bit i don't think once
you get to the next phase whether it's
20 million or 30 murder the next that
whatever your next phase is
i don't see
the great vps of sales wanting churn and
burn deals i think you work through this
i think there may always be incentives
for reps to do them okay which we could
chat about next but as you scale and the
vp of
sales
in a in a higher nr space sees how much
is tied to retention i don't see them
getting as excited about chernobyrd
deals it's not that it totally solves it
but i do see like a lot of issues like
stress around pilots goes away as your
brand gets established it doesn't it
doesn't disappear but the stresses
around um compliance pilots turn and
burn as you scale everyone starts to get
more aligned because it's a no everyone
starts to have an ar number and no one
really wants the crap that that that
doesn't help them achieve their goal
right so
that's just to have faith that alignment
happens right until then
the the only thing that i just don't see
enough folks do is do weekly deal
reviews for both prospects and existing
customers and you've got to force the
ceo and the vp of sales and the vpcs to
both be at the deal review like cs
should be
should be involved in reviewing the top
deals in the pipeline so they know what
they're going to be forced down their
throat right and vp of sales and ceo
should talk about the top customer
issues each week right and you should
see it and when and if a turn and burn
deal is important enough that it creates
stress among that triumvirate you're
going to see gradual improvement you're
going to get more resources but you got
to have these you got to have these
these meetings and you've got to want
some at least once a month talk about
loss skills too and have all three you
need ceos sales and customer says all to
come to all these meetings right and if
if they won't then the ceo has to drive
it
okay how about um you know because
waiting for a company to naturally get
better at that can be
you know can be frustrating how about
things like and i've heard this a few
times i've never done it which is to
change the commission where maybe you
don't get paid you get paid a smaller up
doesn't up front no
so don't
i think that
um
it doesn't help the the um i've tried
all these things myself i've watched him
in action um
great sales professionals
have have a have a particular version of
add they they need to close and move on
you do not want to hire
you want to hire the great sales
professionals especially as you get more
enterprise
are solution experts they're product
experts they guide you they're your ally
if you haven't done enterprise sales
before you don't realize how much an
enterprise buyer relies on a sales
professional to help them make decisions
they're their agent because that person
i don't have that person at my own
company i don't have that person at
qualcomm or google or someone working
for me so the sales rep does my work for
you they're almost your minion in in
many ways right um
and um but
you can't expect you want your closers
closing
you want your closers closing what we've
learned in sales and cs is we want to
specialize we want deployment
specialists doing deployments we want
sales engineers and supporting sales
right we want solution architects
architecting and we want ideally the
classic cs person managing longitudinal
relationships but not doing engineering
and product tweaking up front like we
want to specialize both functions so
you've got to have your sellers sell i
really don't know the answer to that
other than that i think
deal reviews with the vp of sales and if
you have enough trust okay this is what
i have seen work much better
having customer if you have enough trust
with your head of customer success
have them have to accept the customer
this is the only hack i've seen not that
the commission is delayed until
deployment or or renewal but cs has to
accept it and if you can it's if you can
talk to the sales team you can say look
we got two choices either we're gonna
have to hold back some of your
commission until we're in production or
until risk or we're just asking for a cs
accepted
customer right it's a post it's after
closed one and folks that have
implemented that
um and in fact even on our little team
today at saster we implemented that in
the last year and it was
magical on our little team
magical
okay so so implementing basically that's
the same as every sas company but we i
literally tried this experiment myself
right right and
anything anything non-standard that a
sales person on my team closed with a
sponsor
there was no commission until it was
accepted by the post sales team no
commission and i can tell you it
radically changed our sales team's
behavior it radically changed it like
there was bitching and whining but we
didn't we tried the experiment of
breaking up the comp it didn't really
work like people were okay but they
grumbled but we immediately just said
look
you're not getting paid on any anything
remotely non-standard until it's
accepted and
the sales behavior improved it was night
and day how much our sales teams
attitude and improvement change night
okay
you're making friends on on on this uh
uh you know the seminar here webinar
here but uh quick question
did what happened did fewer deals more
higher quality deals come through or was
there sort of a a period where you
rejected a bunch of deals and then it
took some time for sales to learn
without it happening immediately yeah it
took it took it took about two cycles to
work through it okay and um it helped
and again we're just i could it's it's
more help for me maybe to talk about
companies i've invested in but but sure
you've gotten to know brian our head of
sales it's important it's interesting
case study though it's interesting to
have
our head our head of sales when brian
joined he was a partner in this exercise
so before there was no like we had a
great team but there was no partner here
no one no one had interest and we came
in i said brian brian joined
and i said i got to tell you the top
three stressors we have on our team
right um you know and
uh this one of these rogue deals right
which are our version of turn and burn
are destroying our team they're just
destroying our team right and uh and we
we we almost don't even want to do sales
for these deals like it's how cs feels
like i'm little i'm like i'm the
ceo of this little team i don't even
want to do these sponsors anymore right
i don't want to do them and and it did
create a little bit of
of it
at the same time for us for what it's
worth for medicine we switch sales
commissions to payment upon signature
instead of receipt which is a natural
thing you do as you grow as a company
because there's no point in waiting when
cash doesn't matter but that was a
little bit of a
of a tweak right and at the same time we
actually increased sales commissions but
it created some gripes but if you the
lesson learned which is true of any
company if your vp isn't bought in on it
your vp of sales it isn't going to work
is it right absolutely it's not going to
work right absolutely the ceo's got to
buy into of course but here's the
fascinating thing it so it probably took
two months maybe it took more it might
have taken it probably took two months
to fully implement and then a bunch of
mistakes after that right and there were
a couple deals we did not pay any
commissions on at all
okay and that that you almost need to
have a couple to feel it right but what
ended up happening after that this is
interesting is when you got that real
alignment between post sales and sales
on these deals we sold more
right right because then everyone knows
the box because it doesn't matter like
don't sell a churn and burn deal and
still instead if you understand the
parameters of it you'll just get better
at selling what you can deliver
successfully and you'll sell the same or
more revenue
that's great that's great that's great
you won't lose any revenue you won't
lose any revenue right all right uh i
got a
a true ama question here for you yes
right you're an investor you're stranded
on an island
you have three businesses to evaluate
and you're blind you know they're
generic businesses uh you get to invest
in only one and you know nothing else
except for three metrics what three
metrics are you asking for
um
well look i mean obviously revenue
growth nr and burn rate
any any b2b company can be reduced to
you know top line growth and our burn if
i know the three of those i know the
physics of your business
um
if i had a four i'll tell you what the
more interesting answer if i had a
fourth right which is which is um
what's your next product what's your
next offering
um i think the most early on even for
your seed in a round folks you're going
to ask that
what we've no but maybe because if you
look at what's happening the most
visceral example is
the addition of fintech so shopify as a
sas company has okay growth when you add
in merchant services it's insane
bill.com which is what worth 30 billion
dollars today one of my favorite ceos
and products ever we run sasebo.com i
love renee
really good company when it ipo did a
couple billion but when it added fintech
and payments as its second product line
now it's got a third now it's a 30
billion dollar company datadog has 20
products today right twilio has 10.
so
um it's not that when a company a
million or 2 million ar you want to see
40 products that's probably
perfect
that's right that's right but i would
love
if i if i was blind right
because things are so big today in sas
and cloud right i would love to know
what's the hint what's the hint of your
second second product right and i'll
flip it around i met with a great
founding team this week i love them okay
great great early traction coming up on
a million in revenue
cool product really slick really
beautiful
their initial products tams a little bit
too small
okay but it's okay because because
they're crushing it in that growth but
the next the next thing they want to do
to build the tam they haven't started
and it doesn't quite make sense like it
almost makes sense but it doesn't quite
make sense right um and
you know uh and so that's a step too far
but if there was a little progress made
on that next area just a little progress
then i would be like super i'd be like
uh i'm so excited right so it's
connecting these smaller tams so you can
see how you can build something huge and
that's where we're seeing the explosion
if you look at
i know it sounds like a lot but if you
look at every sas company at a billion
and are today two interesting things one
they're growing fast at a billion you
know we used to think that was almost
impossible that you could grow 70 at a
billion in the era but it's almost
becoming commonplace which is insane
right
but the related point is they've all got
these suites of products right they may
be very very tightly related they may be
only two or three like aviva if it's
enterprise but we've all realized you
need this this multi-product approach so
i if hints of it i think
can fuel you to infinity right they can
fill you to infinity
so the three metrics uh growth overall
growth nrr and uh margin you know that's
just no i don't even need no margin just
burn rate just burn rate burn rate okay
whether or not you're healthy
just the burn rate tells me okay got it
right right that's interesting and then
and then and then and for what it's
worth when i see a high burn rate but
the other two are good something's like
off often
okay right the margins i mean
software margins essentially are a
hundred percent in the early days aren't
they yeah they are that's true it's true
gross options at least right those
margins are 100
all right uh let's see about hiring okay
um you know so there's a lot of new sas
companies being born
um and so finding someone this is really
about a senior person so you're bringing
someone senior into your organization
how critical is previous sas
experience compared to just sort of
overall just tech software
experience like you know
how much how much are you placing on on
experience in previous experience sas
for a sas executive today for customer
success or for any role i i think this
seems to be anyone
well i'm going to answer for customer
success because i think i think it's
different
okay um
for
sales marketing product and engineering
i would not take a i would not if i'm
scaling and hire someone that does not
have a pure south park and say there's
two there's too many folks that do
okay there's no point in hiring a
salesperson that hasn't sold sas i ain't
gonna take that
risk if you're below four or five
million in revenue so customer success
is still hands-on it's not all systems
and process and tools right it's not all
it's not all instrumentation i can take
more risk in cs i can take someone
that's smart
i can take someone that has done account
management that has done client services
that has worked in a hardware industry
that has worked in different industry if
they're smart
and maybe somewhat techy or technical i
see that work all the time
um and
um yeah or even in b2c right or in
e-commerce come into b2b i can see that
work in cs so i would take more risk
in cs if you're early-ish than i would
in other functional areas because a
brain
a little bit of technical expertise and
empathy for the customer can take you
really really far right right right oh
that's interesting okay i like that
answer uh okay so here's one uh this is
someone who's earlier um in in their
development so maybe
focus on getting the product market fit
um and you've talked about you know
doing things that don't scale but
in terms of onboarding they're sort of
earlier customers should they over
invest really bum rush you know the
customer to make sure they have a great
first experience you know is that the
right thing to do early on
it's just
founders as founders we all know the
answer is yes yes absolutely
in fact as founders
the biggest frustration sometimes can be
working with folks on your team
sometimes it's true in engineering that
they really don't want to interface with
customers they don't they don't get this
bombardment of attention right i think
that
um the one mistake they make we started
this was not having customer success be
a single digit hire do you have someone
great and customer success do you have
someone in support like it's not the
same role right
um beyond that i think the other mistake
i constantly see made is when you close
your first enterprise customer and maybe
that's 50k to start maybe it's 100k
later it's a million or 10 million or
100 million if you're salesforce that
first 50k maybe it's 20k if your
products 200 a year and you close at
200k like you know it's a log with it
that person should have their own person
this is the mistake i see founders they
should have their own person you've been
struggling for a year or two when you
finally close a hundred thousand dollar
your customer it's your first logo okay
it turned zero wherever it is that
person should have their own
person
hire that person now if that person
needs to be quirky if that person
happens to be your sister-in-law if that
person is whatever i don't care this is
someone that has a brain
okay
and we'll pick up
the chat the email the phone
all the time and they don't have to know
everything if they're stupid it's not
going to work okay but it's fine to say
i'm going to find out the answer to your
question and i'm going to get back to
you now your your biggest customers
deserve that person okay
and um i remember um
a fun story i think i wrote about it but
years ago
one of our biggest customers was groupon
when groupon was huge right when i was
adding a thousand sales reps a month
right and at the time it was
salesforce's biggest tech customer this
is this is a deck over a decade ago
right
and two learnings from that that first
maybe the second trip to groupon the
first one was mark benioff had
personally been there the day before so
that says a lot right um there was also
a salesforce put a prop phone there okay
and it was a real phone and when you
picked up that phone someone from
salesforce always answered okay
and back then it was a big deal for
salesforce maybe it was 20 or 30 or 40
million dollars a year which today
actually was not a huge deal for them
but whatever it was double digit
millions and that phone i think it was
red or green or something but salesforce
has put it in with great salesforce
branding and you picked up the phone 24
hours and someone solved your problem
that's amazing right amazing all right
so
as a startup
because you don't have a thousand you
could have that person think about the
power
of no think about that magical
experience when you when you sign up and
you're the biggest and remember
customers are not stupid they know if
they're your biggest customer
and they're expect it's a social
contract if you're a biggest customer
you're expecting you're not expecting
the software does everything you're not
expecting that it's perfect or that it's
feature rich you're expecting that
relationship and innovation and so when
that you're expecting that experience so
that's that's where you should have that
person like make sure and again and
again i'm like oh we just closed a
million dollar deal hooray who who's
their dedicated rep well we don't have
it but
i mean
it was so i agree
i think scalability is you know if you
think about scalability too early just
you just don't get the thing done right
i mean it and then you know you kind of
back into it you make it to process or
you just just you know send that person
on it bum rush the the problem uh and
then at some point you know if you
actually fix the problem let's go ahead
and think about scaling yes
okay so um since you think about sas all
day there's still folks who are there's
plenty of industries that are not
subscription-based not sas based
if you're moving from on-prem
to trying to be sas
top few things you got to think about in
order to make that jump successfully
i mean it's a
it's a it's a
for the vendor from the perspective of
the vendor or the right yeah so like i
sell maybe an on-prem solution and you
know or i sell a hostess solution but
that is you know how did i want to go to
sas and sell subscription based what are
the few i mean adobe did it recently
right they kind of like flipped yeah i
was there when it started um yeah i just
think
first of all um i think soft there are
elements of software as software and
great software is great software and in
fact on-prem software is better than
cloud software
do you know why
tell me why because it's really hard to
patch
if we do our release tonight for turn
zero and there's a there's a bug
it sucks but we can roll out a patch
before most of our customers have ever
noticed right
do you know how hard have you ever
patched i mean i don't know your whole
career but patching on-prem software can
be from hard to in some cases depending
on how secure the environment is it can
be close to impossible oh i'm rushing
out a floppy disk i was that was there
impossible so so cloud software is worse
than on-prem software it is worse in
terms of quality right i don't literally
but but but the trade-off is you're
making a commitment for continuous
innovation right and people forget this
people pay there is an element of
subscription software that's a rip-off
right that hey look as a vendor i'm
gonna go pro i'm going to make more
money at month at year 2.64 versus a
perpetual license right that's that's
the cfo's version of sas right and
but but the customer actually is
expecting something different they're
expecting substantial innovation and
that is sometimes the biggest thing to
get your arms around of when you go like
we're expecting you really do need to do
i mean we could talk about doing you
know hourly releases and all that junk
but really people want quarterly
innovation in their vendor
and they're expecting it for that check
and you have the idea that you have to
re-earn your customer right which is
part of retention sometimes is a little
alien to on-prem folks the idea of
re-earning your customer and you know it
doesn't mean that they're going to turn
in an hour if you don't keep innovating
and adding more functionality but they
will leave you
right
but i think i think you know it's really
about the model of customer service and
success
maybe maybe they're asking about the
finances and you know dealing with you
know the jump to uh to a monthly or
annual recurring revenue model like
those those things are always hard but
you know people have solved that before
right you just have to be ready for it
it's just that's more simple that you
just that usually has a two-year
transition phase and then you come out
ahead on the other side like adobe and
into it right um that that part is
pretty well understood today it's a
little stressful but but frankly
investors in wall street don't care
they're they're happy for it everyone
that's gone thoughtspot just finished it
right and they raised it six billion
right right so all the analytics players
relate to it too right i mean when
salesforce bought tableau
it wasn't really even a sas company
that's right that's true that's true
right i mean lab just ipo to 16 billion
it's not really a sas company right the
good news is that we don't have any no
one's first you're not gonna be first
anymore uh there's a playbook ahead of
you all right yeah uh hey there's been a
lot of talk about product-led growth
business models um
where does customer success fit into
that model that's one of the questions i
have right here
well
i think that uh
i don't know um
i think that
the key is and fortunately there's so
many vendors today now but you know you
can't have
product led growth
isn't actionable unless you have
instrumentation around it
right what is actionable right what is
the difference between product led
growth and classic freemium self-service
um viral word of mouth which
we've been doing for as long as we had
collaboration software internet software
right what is the difference between
that right what is the difference
between dropbox giving you more storage
if you invite 10 of your friends right
what is the difference between
salesforce launch with the free trial in
1999 right is that product lit growth
right
but our ability to
in real time understand the journey of a
customer right how they use the product
and how they collaborate with third
parties right and other folks if you
don't have that instrumentation if you
don't have actionable data i don't think
it really matters much
right so step one is to truly instrument
it and we're there's we're getting there
we're getting there um but i think
that's where
uh you know is product led grow if
because if you don't have
instrumentation that product love growth
are just are just
little things on your product roadmap
that sort of product teams going to work
on and you hope that they work out
yeah i agree and there's by the way
there's no reason not to do it now
there's plenty of technology it's
actually easy
plug it right in and get going because
the cs team if you're going to have one
needs they need the signals right to
figure out what to do next
but the net thing is like what are
signals in the old days usage
right that's all we had like
a generation ago right so for cs if you
have the right instrumentation you have
to decide what are the couple other
signals that we can act on that will
accelerate deployment both internally
right for for financial defining product
and and if you can if you're a
collaborative product externally where
the magic is right all right so we have
five minutes left i'm gonna ask you a
couple of uh different kinds of
questions so someone says hey you do
great interviews what's the and i'm just
gonna keep the word the coolest
interview you've ever had
that i've i've done as an interview have
you ever done it yeah yeah yeah the um
greatest coolest
funnest
um
boy funnest is i think my favorites
uh
there's so many there's so many great
ones i mean certainly doing stuart
butterfield at slack in 2015 when slack
was just exploding telling me we'd never
have sales people that was fun at the
first after annual um i think the ones
though that stay with me probably the
one that stays with me the most was
therese tucker from blackline after she
just moved on to chairman
and ultimately
founders that can put
you know this as
almost a single parent a solo founder a
woman when it was harder an engineer
that had to throw away the product that
she built for the first two years and
start from scratch with no investors and
no money
um
here folks that like therese putting
that in context um and for other that
that was maybe my my my number one um
favorite of all that i can think of i'm
not goofiest the the stewart might have
been the funniest one i didn't know him
but uh
but but i think the best communicators
right
can put things in context for you right
and help you see something different and
i would say and i think in her own way
teresa was my favorite for that that's
great that's your job right and that's
why as a as
an executive or as an executive
don't i know you might think oh my god i
gotta tell the story a hundred times i
gotta tell the churn zero story a
hundred times but you get good at it oh
yeah it's okay that's part of being a
leader it's that's part of being a
leader and getting better and better at
telling that story and the pieces of it
and um
that's an art and um and and not making
it right right that's the art
so i'm gonna ask you one last question
it's around covet um and the reason i'm
asking you this is because you know
you're gonna
disaster annual was the first major tech
conference i got impacted by covet i
remember
uh i was i was checking my phone
right right before i get on the plane to
see if i was going to go to san
francisco for saturday annual 2021 uh
and then i went to disaster annual 2022.
so you've been thinking about this
you're on the front line of this um so
maybe i'll generalize it a little bit um
what major sort of systemic changes you
know maybe some non-obvious ones sorry
to put you on the spot around covet and
the impact on the way we do business
something that you know
we ought to invest in right like you
know or take advantage of now that we're
in this brave new world
um
i think that um
uh well
look what was clear is when covet hit
yeah we lost 10 million we had to cancel
cessna you know that was all terrible
right we could chat about that if you
wanted to for cathartic reasons but but
then there was a first wave everyone
needed zoom right i mean zoom zoom
completely changed right it went from it
went from a niche app to an operating
system didn't it right zoom slack notion
this became our our versions of those
became our stacks right almost overnight
is we all moved into distributed world
so we all saw that
um
i think
what i what it took me a while to
realize until i met with more enterprise
ceos is that's just starting in the
enterprise
because there's two waves wave one was
we can't function as a company without
these tools right and it wasn't just
zoom companies like talk desk and five
nine and and all others that did call
centers they all had to move to the
cloud and those are all on-prem systems
right the legacy systems right that was
another there's so there are whole areas
of where god we just can't work as a
company distributed without these tools
but now
now cios and cxos and others now they're
planning for the next
five years right and there's a whole
wave of buying decisions and you can see
it in the gartner numbers like the
gartner numbers keep going up right
gartner has to keep revising every
quarter up the amount going into sas
because the the changes that the
organizations wanted to make postcode
but didn't weren't forced to make in a
week those are now being played out in
2022 in 20 late 2021 and into 2023.
so if you are in the engine of
enterprise change and you're the right
vendor strap it on because next year is
going to be even better than this year
right zoom may have like we love zoom
zoom may have peaked in the sense that
zoom adoption already happened right i
mean it's still growing but growing 40
is not the same as 400 but in the
enterprise the best ones that's the next
two years that are going to be crazy
that's amazing all right so we'll end on
that optimistic note which is you know
uh you know co we we actually talked
about this earlier where
you know it it's prompting extreme
digital transformation right extreme
extreme and so uh
we'll end there well hey jason thank you
uh for sharing you know years years
years of experience and uh and thanks
for being early on the customer success
train and then really leading all of us
and uh
i hope everyone follow jason
jason lk
at twitter i know i do and then make
sure you go to cesarean so uh all right
thanks everyone and thanks thanks
everyone for joining
[Music]
you